as PR had no death info, and only case information, i used the infection rate per area, of all the cases, and got a percentage of the cases from that area. of the cases, i then times the percentage of the deaths to that number to give me an approximation of the deaths per area, based off the total cases. i ensured that the numbers all equaled to the corret death amount. i added that number to my sheets. 

as joplin missouri is in 2 counties, i divided the amount of cases and deaths and added that amount to both areas. i did the same for kansas city, new york, and any other location that crossed county lines. looking back, i could have got the percentage that the city was in the particular county in question, however most of them upon visual inspection looked about 50/50, and none looked like there was a tiny bit in one area vs another. 

to figure out PRs political figures, as they do not vote in the presidental election.... i will leave my personal opinion on that out of this, and move on. i took a look at the political data for the last major election. i then added up the percentage of the votes for the 4 major parties. as there were 2 that seemed the most used and had the biggest followings, i opted to use those two. one is named as a democratic party, therefore i listed them as 'LEFT' in my political map, and the other, by default was 'RIGHT'. 

i had looked at 2 different sets of data for the PR information, one was a three portion local election, and the other was the election for their new govenener. as their govener is their highest ranking official, i used the information from that election to be congruent with the data that i already had for our general presidental election. it was interesting to see how the votes for the general election that they held and the election for their govener were not always congruent with what the overwheling majority voted in their general election. however, i assume that is more accurate than not as i would imaging that is the way that most political voting goes, which means that no matter what, my data will be skewed one way or another unless i have the ability to pull general elections for people in each county and then compare it to the data. but as my teacher changed the assignement for my final, i dont have the time to be able to accomplish that in the timeframe alotted. 

US virgin islands political information was a bit tricky as as they do not hold elections seperately per island, and instead mass them all together. thier last election of their govenor was used to compile their data. then the percentage of population per island was used as the way to seperate the votes between the three islands. 

590 counties have a majority LEFT population
the other 2634 counties are all RIGHT majority

alaska is weird as it will have areas that are listed with one population, and have a voting base that is larger than their population. their explination that i can find is they add the vast tracks of land to one FIPS code, however the census does not count them in that code, they count them in a seperate burrow. the burrow does not seem to have a corrosponding FIPS code that is similar to the rest of the states. it messes up my numbers, and i dont like it. =/

there were a lot of prisions and jails that did not have names assoiciated with them for one reason or another. and well, it is really hard to get prision and jail information. and after i did the data scrape thing, which tried to make my laptop have a siezure, i am opting to just keep the 'unlisted' facilities that the BOP gave me and list them with the county that they are stating that they are from. if there are multiple unlisted facilities in the same fips codes, they are all being combined into one. if there were more than 5 unlisted, then they were combined into groups of 5, and marked appropiately. 

scrubbed through all the prisions, and removed all the ones that were obviouse doubles. and cleaned up all the annoying accronyms that people had in the dataset because it was gross and annoying. as far as the numbers of the population that it is listing in all the prisions, i think that someone was just keyboard-smashing to get the numbers, as they just dont make sense at all. there is no consistancy, and maybe they just used a random number generator or something. i dont know. but that part of the data is pretty much going to be worthless to me, as, again it is near impossible to get accurate data for the prision systems. 